Nhan Cao
Phil 211 – Ancient Greek Philosophy
Final Exam 
December 11th 2018
Word count

Final
	Nicomachean Ethics is Aristotle’s most complete work on ethics, which still influences till nowadays. Unlike Plato’s dry and strict formula of ethics, Aristotle’s view is rather intuitive.
	Before discussing how Aristotle define the virtue and its value, it is important to know where does it fits in the big picture.  Aristotle holds that “all human action aims at some end;” and while “some ends are merely instrumental,” (p. 80) all of them must eventually lead to one purpose, happiness. Happiness, however, is not the same for everyone; our personal true happiness are reflected by who we are. The first step to define happiness is to clarify its difference from pleasure. Human is considered different than the rest of animal kingdom, differs in a way that make human happiness could not merely pleasure, but of a higher form. Aristotle deems those who idea their happiness as pleasure astray, thinks of their life as  meaningless when all they could ever wish for is amusement. That being said, pleasure still plays an important part in our happiness, but should not be everything happiness represents. 
	Happiness, is then, defined to be attained by “fulfilling the end of being human.” That end, that purpose is different for every human; it is “given by nature and makes up the essence of our humanity.” It separates us from object, plants, and other animals. He also does not see it as a destination that we can accomplish, but rather the action we took and the they way we do it. 
	Human thinks, and human feels. Those are what define human, and because of that, “the road to happiness involves two dimensions” (p. 82). It means by one way or another, in order to fulfill a human, his needs of thinking and feeling necessarily have to be met. Understanding that, the path to happiness is then to Aristotle is stated as to “rationally judge what are the right principles to follow,”(p. 82) - the exercise of intellectual virtue, and to discipline your appetites, emotions to follow those rules “must be disciplined to follow those rules” (p. 82) - the exercise of moral virtue. It is first to identify what is morally good, and then to direct human’s desire to the good so that while satisfying ourselves, our action causes positive impact on the society we are in.
	Moral is “knowing, internalizing, and applying” (p. 80). Practical wisdom is the knowing, judging what is to be conducted. It is composed of two main parts, philosophic wisdom and practical wisdom. Philosophic wisdom is the knowledge of the unchanged structure of reality, represented by modern science, describing the motion of the universe. Practical wisdom, on the other hand, is the humane part of human’s rationality, in charge of understanding morality. Intellectual virtue, however, is all about knowing; and that is not enough to make person moral. The means to attach that knowledge to our action is moral virtue. Moral virtue configures the internalizing part, making moral decision voluntary. Its job is “balance one’s desire and emotions.” As mentioned before, there are two human need need to satisfy to fulfill a person, and moral virtue is there to make sure the needs are in a proper acceptable limit. Finally, the last step to bring forth the result of the internal battle to the reality - applying. Aristotle addresses applying moral as trained behavior. Unlike intellectual aspect of our soul, moral is not a state, it is a accumulated pattern through time and consistency. True form of moral is not only manifested in our action but also our motive; judged by the voluntary level of the action. Aristotle, thus, presses on the his view that moral requires practice to master. As it is not just about knowing what is right, but acting on it voluntarily, moral actions, just like any other skill, routine we do, needs to be get used to with to form persistence and reliability. Another important note worth mentioning is that, even though moral is reflected in the choice we made, there is a gap made of compulsion and ignorance that would alter the action’s voluntary, thus, effect the morality of the action.
	The concept of “balance” is philosophical key point of Aristotle’s principle. He believes there is no proper algorithm can draw the line of the soundness of a judgement. As each of us have our own place of balance, the only way we can find our balance is to adjust accordingly to our internal judgement to finally can find a place, which Aristotle calls the mean, that we can justify our action with ourselves.
References

“Ethics: Keeping Things in Balance.” Voyage of Discovery, by William F. Lawhead, 2nd ed., Wadsworth, 2002, pp. 80–85.

